The Joe Rogan experience. I gonna talk to you about that too. Yes. Um,
cuz you brought up Bostrom, what do you Bostrom relies on?
I mean he was relying on theories in terms of like mathematical
theories of probability to,
to say that he thinks it's more likely that we're in a simulation.
Yeah, he has. He.
Has a, the thing he's articulated,
I don't think he's come up with the idea of the simulation.
He just kind of right. Really thought about it deeply.
He came up with a simulation argument,
which is these three categories that he described to you, possible outcomes.
I think, uh,
the first one is we destroy ourselves before we ever simulation.
The second one is that we would lose interest in creating a
simulation at some point. And the third one is, uh,
we're living in a simulation. Yeah.
And where do you, where do you lean?
I think, uh,
to <laugh> I think there's going to, um,
the three paths that he highlight. I did,
it makes it sound like it's so clear that it's just three,
but I think there's gonna be a huge amount of possibilities of the kinds of
simulations. Like to me, I keep asking, uh, you know, to ask El Musk, he,
uh, about the simulation, he said, uh, what's outside what? Outside?
What's on the other side. What's outside the simulation. Yeah. I,
I think I asked, uh, what would you ask an AGI system?
And he said what's outside the simulation is the question. Yeah, he believes.
In it. I, or at least he entertains it as a troll. The.
Elon Musk embodies like the best of the Twitter,
internet troll,
AME <laugh> and a billion engineer and designer in one it's like a, yeah,
it's like a quantum state that you can't quite figure out. Like what,
what's the coupling? Cause I don't know if he's trolling, but I'm the same way.
I love asking people about the simulation.
Even though I get a little bit of hate from the scientific community, but it.
It pushes,
why do you get hate from the scientific community about the simulation?
Cause it's.
Uh, it's ridiculous notion if you think of it's like literally that,
because it's not a test of thing mm-hmm <affirmative> or we don't know how to
test, like why are you talking about this?
Why do you sit down with Elon Musk and talk about the simulation? When,
when you're sitting with a world expert in particular aspects of rockets or
robotics, like I'm an expert.
I can't believe I just said that I'm not expert anything,
but I know about a few things about autonomous vehicles.
Why don't you talk to him about that? Right? Why don't we talk about simulation?
Well, the thing is the simulation pushes you outside of the muck,
the messiness of everyday details of science and makes you ask big questions
about like the nature of our reality. Mm. And I,
I like to think of it as like what, how would we build a simulation?
Like what would be a compel enough virtual reality game that you wanna stay
there for all your, your whole life? Mm that's a first step there.
That's useful to think about like, what is our reality? What,
what aspects of the are most interesting for us humans to be able to
perceive with our limited perception and cognitive abilities interpret and
interact with, and then a bigger question then is like,
how do you build a larger scale simulation that would be able to create that
virtual reality game, which I think is a possible future.
We're already creating virtual worlds for ourselves on Twitter, social networks.
And so on. I really believe that virtual reality will, will enter.
We will spend more and more of our lives in the next 50 to a hundred years in
virtual worlds. Mm. And the simulation hypothesis,
the simulation discussion is part of that. I think,
I think there's the question of what's outside is really interesting.
That's the other way of, because like what created us?
What started the whole thing?
It's the modern version of asking what the, what is God?
What does God look like? What, you know, it's, it's asking,
what does the programmer look like? I think that's a,
a fast say any question, but arguing that we're already living the simulation.
I think you've got stuck on that little point.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I think it's not that intrigu there.
There's a bit of a language barrier too. There's a, there's a technical. Yeah.
I think Nick, that legit, it's funny. It's funny.
Nick is a legit philosopher and so he's been fighting battles in the philosophy
game, him, like you've asked them, does somebody disagree with him? Yeah.
On thesepos and there's a bunch of philosophers disagree with him, but uh,
including Sean Carll on the philosophical level and a lot of the arguments are
in philosophy mm-hmm <affirmative> and they're sort of technical and they're
about language and about terms and so on. But I think, yeah,
it's very possible that we, we a,
we live in a simulation and I think, uh, one of the,
this constructs of,
so physics theoretical physicsatistics with many world's interpretation of
quantum mechanics, as Sean has talked to you about mm-hmm, <affirmative>, uh,
reveals some interesting sort of fundamental building blocks of our reality.
There's something I don't think people have talked to you about,
which is like the coolest thing to me,
the most amazing thing that nobody can explain yet things called
cellular atoter.
And there's a guy mathematician named John Conway who came up in the seventies
with a thing called game of life and cellular atoter are these two
dimensional or one dimensional,
but am of life is two dimensional grid where every single little cell
is really dumb and it behaves based on the cells next to it.
And it it's born when there's a few, when there's like a certain number,
like three cells alive next to it. And it dies otherwise.
So it's like a simpler rule for birth and death and all it knows it's it's
nearby surrounding in its own life.
And if you take that system with a really dumb rule and expand it in size
arbitrary complexity emerges, you can have, uh,
touring machines so you can simulate perfect computers with that system and it
can grow. And all these behaviors grow. Like if you watch,
if people Google like a game of life and you can watch this extremely dumb,
simple system just grow arbitrary
complexities and what you start to
realize that from such incredibly simple building blocks,
that don't know anything about the bigger world around them,
you can build our entire universe.
You can build the kind of complexities we see in this.
So like we think that God is like, uh,
designing every little aspect of whatever of our world or a simulation
hypothesis. The is designed by hand. Like I'm gonna craft these things.
What you realize is all you can,
all you need to do is just set some initial conditions,
set some really basic rules and allow the system to grow
as long as it can grow arbitrarily, just crazy stuff.
Amazing stuff can happen from like, from simplicity. Complexity can emerge.
And that for like, if you study this a little bit closer, just like watch it.
People can watch a game of life on YouTube and think about what it's showing
like for 10 minutes, it, it it'll blow your mind.
The fact that from simplicity,
arbitrary complexity, beauty can, is like incredible.
So for the simulation,
the creator of the simulation is probably some 13 year old nerd living in like,
uh, in his mom's basement is probably just set some rules in this video game and
press play. And then arbitrary complexity can emerge. It can have a Joe Rogan,
it can have an Elon Musk,
all the tech technologies that we've developed and probably millions of other
alien species that are living throughout our universe. Jesus.
So the, yeah, that, to me,
the cellularometer reveals that the simulation is much
easier to create than we might think. And,
but there's a lot of varied and the kinds of simulations well create,
like I think the simulation hypothesis thinks like, you know, there's like one,
but I think there's gonna be a lot of varieties. There's, there's,
there's a lot of possible different rule sets. There's a,
a lot of different physical mediums in which these simulations could be created.
It can be a completely virtual world, the rule of consciousness,
whether you make most people consci or not,
whether most of them are philosophical zombies.
They're just like non non-player characters. And it's just you, or you have,
or is your mind simulated like the role of
suffering. So consciousness brings with it, this idea of,
of basically, you know, subjective experience,
a subjective experience comes with the idea of pain and fear.
And so on the thing, again, my Russian romanticization of it,
but I think fear of death is essential. Scarcity is essential for,
for beauty for life. Yeah. And that,
that's a nice feature of this little simulation we got going on that there could
be a lot of different alternatives. I think that could be less individualistic,
less, less, uh, consciousness could be present in different kinds of forms.
So I,
I see there's a lot more options than those three that he highlights and we can
destroy ourselves in a lot of interesting ways. Uh,
the entire civilizations from AI to nuclear weapons, to biological,
to all kinds of weapons. So.
It's almost like whether it's a simulation or not is almost
irrelevant.
The complexity of the existence and all of the various
pushes and pulls that, keep everything together. They're,
they're almost operating like some grand plan,
whether they like it or not, whether whether or not a grand plan exists,
all these different things are happening and everything is moving in a very
specific direction. Right. It's moving to words, further complexity.
Like, uh,
I was having a conversation with a friend of mine last night where we were
talking about phones and, uh, we were like, uh, you know,
like when are they ever gonna look at a phone and say, I think we're good.
We don't have to, the camera works great signals, great. And call people.
You can text people. Let's just stop innovating right here.
And we're both laughing. Like it's never gonna happen. But even though we admit,
like if you have an iPhone 11 or a pixel four, is that what you have? Yeah.
It works pixel four. Yeah. Works. They work great.
You don't really need anything better. Like in terms of the way our,
our culture works, you get so much done on these things. You can bank on them.
Is it okay if I'm.
Drinking all your waters by the.
Way? Yeah. We have a lot of water. Yeah. Okay. Please.
<laugh> you're water Russian. <laugh>,
that's very polite of you. Um, the, the, just the existence itself,
whether or not there's a design to it, uh,
it seems to operate in a at,
or that would indicate there's a design. The design doesn't have to be real.
It doesn't have to be a simulation. It doesn't have to be a grand plan,
but it moves in the, the same way as if it's a grand plan. It's weird.
It's.
Hard to put into words,
but there is a different force and a momentum like the evolutionary process.
The fact that life was created fact that there's always a kind of a progress.
And also like, uh, just like with the native Americans, the,
the fact that suffering seems to be a constant story that was weaving in mm-hmm.
<affirmative> like we, we constantly progress, but we seems to be, uh,
like creating the other and torturing. And the,
there seems to be constant suffering and war and so on through this growth
process. And that seems to be death is a huge part of that. And, and.
Conflict, conflict, even social conflict.
Like we were talking about social justice warriors and, and that type of thing.
I think they almost have to exist.
It's almost like the world creates a space for them and people find a way to
fill that space. Yeah.